+++
title = "Configuring S3 Storage"
template = "doc.html"
weight = 2
+++

Amazon S3, which stands for Amazon Simple Storage Service, is a technology that was introduced by Amazon Web Services for cloud storage that has since been extended more broadly into a [standard programming interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_S3#S3_API_and_competing_services).

Our S3 support lets you store credentials for your S3 object storage buckets on your Urbit ship; once you have done so, you will get additional functionality for uploading your own media within Chat and Groups (for avatars).

To enable S3 support on your ship you'll need to first set up a bucket, and then add its credentials to Landscape using *either* Landscape or the Dojo.

### Bucket Setup

If you’re using AWS, it will have to support signature v2, not v4. We've found DigitalOcean's Spaces to work well also. The bucket has to be publicly readable, allow CORS from `*` origins, allow GET and PUT methods, and allow `*` headers. Your provider should have details on setting access permissions and CORS.

### Add your credentials: Landscape

Navigate to your `https://<your-ship-url>/~settings#s3`, or click your sigil in the upper-right corner of the window. Fill out the **S3 Credentials** and **S3 Buckets** sections and you're all set!

### Add your credentials: Dojo

Once you have gotten your bucket setup, poke the `s3-store` on your ship with your details. You can do this in Dojo or in web Dojo.

```
:s3-store|set-endpoint 'endpoint.mys3provider.com'
:: AWS endpoint example: s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com
:: Digital Ocean endpoint example: sfo2.digitaloceanspaces.com
:s3-store|set-access-key-id 'MYACCESSKEYID'
:s3-store|set-secret-access-key 'MYSECRETACCESSKEY'
:s3-store|set-current-bucket 'yourbucketname'
```

Done! If you need to peek at s3-store’s state, you can always run :s3-store +dbug (inside Dojo, not web Dojo, unfortunately). You’ll see the additional functionality appear in Groups and Chat.
