+++
title = "July 2022"
date = "2022-07-27"

[featured-1]
title = "Software as Soulcraft and the Metaphysics of Engineering with Neal Davis"
description = "Professor Neal Davis Discusses why Urbit computers have souls, Shinto philosophy, and more"
image=""
content = """
Urbit Foundation’s Technical Director Neal Davis discusses the philosophy of development on Urbit in a wide ranging conversation that covers everything from the spirit of objects and why it’s not obvious that nuclear fusion would be of benefit to mankind.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8f8vk1BhlDo" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


"""

[featured-2]
title = "Studio"
description = "One line about the thing"
content = """
Studio is an application from Tirrel Corporation which enables Urbit users to turn a Groups notebook into a public blog with just a few clicks. 

One can enable comments, multiple templates, and even integrate with Sendgrid to send new posts as email updates.

Tirrel has announced on their blog that Studio’s next release will include USD payments integration, allowing individuals to use Urbit to make a 
storefront and accept USD.

While most Urbit applications are focused on activity within the Urbit universe, Studio is unique in its focus on connecting the fiat and clearweb worlds to Urbit.

Check out more from Tirrel at tirrel.io and install Studio from ~tirrel/studio.
"""

[featured-3]
title = "Reciprocal Ltd."
description = "Reciprocal is full-service design and development consultancy for external partners and internally develops experimental applications, artwork, and interactive media."
content = """
Reciprocal is full-service design and development consultancy for external partners and internally develops experimental applications, artwork, and interactive media.

Reciprocal has released two applications: the mysterious Transit, and the chaotic Channel.  The latter is a truly decentralized imageboard in the spirit of 4chan.

"""
+++
