+++
title = "A brief update from urbit.org"
date = "2021-02-18"
description = "A brief update from urbit.org for ~2.19.2021"

[extra]
author = ""
ship = "~wolref-podlex"
+++

Hello!

This week we’re introducing our newest grants program, Scholarships, sharing an update on the Urbit community, and introducing the newest members of the Urbit Foundation team. We’ve also got some important infrastructure updates about King Haskell and an overhaul of our Getting Started guide. Let’s dive in:

1 - Scholarships

I’m excited to announce the (soft) launch of a new type of grant we’re calling “Scholarships.” The big idea behind the program is to grow the base of individuals that can contribute to Urbit through hands-on, one-to-one mentorship with infrastructure engineers at Tlon.

The program works by first having an infrastructure engineer define and scope a project, and then pairing them with someone from the community. Unlike other grants, these projects are centered on platform development, meaning Arvo or Vere, rather than on userspace development. Scholars will learn much about how Urbit works, take on impactful infrastructure projects, and gain insight into how infrastructure engineers think about building Urbit.

We’ve begun scholarships with two members of the Urbit community who have demonstrated high technical aptitude and commitment via grants or other open-source projects. We don’t have any additional openings at this time, but expect to have a few more in the coming months.

If you’re interested in a scholarship, sign up for the waitlist here: https://airtable.com/shr6Xmo55h8dZ0O46

2 - Community

Our community has been pretty busy lately. Here’s a non comprehensive list of what they’ve been up to:

- ~timluc-miptev completed the Bitcoin gall agents. They’re now being integrated into Landscape as a wallet.
- ~sovmep-ripsum finished his work on ucal, an iCalendar-compatible calendaring backend for Urbit.
- ~tabnus-fondeg began work on Urbit LFS (large file storage) for providing file sharing and hosting support.
- ~sipfyn-pidmex is writing a comprehensive suite of documentation for graph-store to enable an easier on-ramp to building new social applications.
- ~minder-folden launched a new hosting provider that you can check out here: https://escapepod.store
- ~naltyc-wornes is contributing a set of official, battle-tested guides for running Urbit on “smol” devices to the urbit.org website.
- ~hocdep-labtul hosted his first Urbit UTC meetup, which featured ~timluc-miptev and received great attendance. We’re looking forward to the next one featuring ~nartes-fasrum on the Aesthetics of Urbit. Learn more here: https://www.urbit.computer/utc/#upcoming-meetups

We’ll have a flurry of new bounties coming online in the upcoming weeks, so keep your eyes peeled —there might even still be an open one! Check them out here: https://grants.urbit.org/bounties.

If you’ve got an idea you’d like to work on, make sure to submit a proposal. you’re not quite sure how to get started, book some time with me here and I can help you figure it out: https://calendly.com/wolref

3 - Foundation growth

This month the Urbit Foundation grew by 200%, which is less astounding when you know that it grew from one person to three. Nonetheless, this is a significant milestone for the community-focused arm of Urbit.

~timluc-miptev (aka Tim) joins us from the developer community, where he’s been a prominent figure for some time as the creator of the popular Nock for Everyday Coders guide (https://blog.timlucmiptev.space/part1.html) and Complete Guide to Gall (https://github.com/timlucmiptev/gall-guide). He’s become a thoroughly proficient Hoon developer and Urbit architect through his work on Bitcoin integration, and will now be working to design grants and guide contributors in their development of their projects.

~taller-ravnut (aka Mike) is passionate about community formation, and is excited to start working on supporting those that wish to host Urbit Meetups in their cities, universities, and timezones (since, at time of writing, IRL isn’t much of a thing). He’ll also be performing outreach to developers and developer communities to help spread the word and grow the contributor base of Urbit.

There’s still tons of work to do and I don’t expect Tim and Mike to be the last additions to the team this year. If you’re interested in working at the UF, send me a DM for an invite to the group.

4 - King Haskell

King Haskell is a rewrite of the part of Urbit that talks to Unix and the outside world. When you switch to KH, the part of Urbit that runs Nock code stays the same. Importantly, King Haskell includes better facilities for NAT traversal, which should improve connectivity issues for self-hosted ships.

As its name suggests, King Haskell is written in the Haskell programming language. Haskell is much easier (and more fun) for rapid development than C, and lightyears better for writing correct, bug-free code. As a result, we expect faster iteration times and more reliability in this part of the system.

King Haskell is being shipped as part of a v1.2 release of the Urbit binaries. To run an existing ship with the King, say

./urbit-king run path/to/your/pier

To create a new ship, use the `urbit-king new` command.

If you run into any problems doing this, or notice any incompatible behavior, please inform the authorities immediately.

The Tlon Corporation is also using this new software on some of its infrastructure galaxies, but third party infrastructure ships should wait for further notice from us before doing so.

5 - Getting Started guide

Two members of our community have put a bunch of work into giving our Getting Started (formerly called Install + Setup) guide a facelift. They simplified the language, made the options much clearer, and improved some confusing instructions.

If you’re looking to try Urbit or know someone that would want to run it, give our guide a try and let us know what you think!

https://urbit.org/using/install/

--

That’s all for now. ~roslet-tanner will be in touch in a few weeks with an update from Tlon. See you on the network!
Josh / ~wolref-podlex

https://twitter.com/urbit
https://github.com/urbit/urbit
