+++
title = "~2018.2.24 Update"
date = "2018-02-23"
description = "A short update from the Tlon team for the week of ~2018.2.24."
aliases = [ "/posts/2018-2-24-update/" ]

[extra]
ship = "~tonlur-sarret"
author = ""
+++

This week was another busy one at the Tlon office. Here's what we were up to.

This week we performed another [continuity breach](https://urbit.org/docs/using/admin/#-continuity-breaches). Now that we've fixed most of the bugs in new Talk, we think the network is going to be pretty smooth for a while. If you haven't already, follow our [setup](https://urbit.org/docs/using/setup) doc again to reboot your planet in this new continuity era. If you'd like a planet, [email me](mailto:keaton@tlon.io)!

We're hosting a [Meetup now](https://www.meetup.com/urbit-sf/events/247797527/) at the Tlon office. _Josh_ `~taglux-nidsep` is in town, and we all need a drink after the breach. Bring your laptop, stop by for a beer, and let us install Urbit for you. Or just relax and talk to people.

_Mark_ `~palfun-foslup` had a number of PRs merged this week for various bug fixes to Talk and Hall.

_Joe_ `~master-morzod` fixed several issues with Urbit's terminal.

_Anton_ `~pittyp-datfyn` made a one-line fix in Ford that fixed a major bug in cache performance. As a result, the website and Fora feel snappier.

_Ted_ `~rovnys-ricfer` and _Keaton_ `~tonlur-sarret` continued working on the new Ford design.

_Galen_ `~ravmel-ropdyl`, _Jimmy_ `~haptyl-wanwes`, and _Chris_ `~sigtus-hossyn` worked more on the new frontend.

_Curtis_ `~sorreg-namtyv` is finishing up work on Hoon type defaulting, and has started working on a new design for the Hoon pretty printer.

Josh, Ted and Keaton took a hiatus from Mars Talk this week to discuss future plans. We'll be back next week, better than ever.

Have a great weekend!
