+++
title = "~2018.3.5 Update"
date = "2018-03-04"
description = "A short update from the Tlon team for the week of ~2018.3.5."
aliases = [ "/posts/2018-3-5-update/" ]

[extra]
author = ""
ship = "~rovnys-ricfer"
+++

_Galen_ `~ravmel-ropdyl`, _Anthony_ `~poldec-tonteg`, _Chris_ `~sigtus-hossyn`, _Jimmy_ `~haptyl-wanwes`, and _Anton_
`~pittyp-datfyn` have continued the push toward the new Urbit frontend.

_Curtis_ `~sorreg-namtyv` has been working more on simplifying default value calculation in the Hoon type system.

_Ted_ `~rovnys-ricfer` and _Keaton_ `~tonlur-sarret` have a design for a better Ford caching and rebuilding architecture,
and are now converting it to a UP to be reviewed by the community.

_Mark_ `~palfun-foslup` submitted a [pull request](https://github.com/urbit/arvo/pull/651) that implements the _Keccak_
family of cryptographic hashing functions in Hoon, including `SHA-3`, `shake`, and `rawshake`. We'll need `keccak` to
integrate Urbit with Ethereum.

Also, [moons](https://urbit.org/docs/using/admin/#-moons) are back! You can run the `+moon` generator from your galaxy,
star or planet to create a ticket for a new moon. If you run your ship in the cloud and SSH in to use Talk, try booting a
moon on your laptop and using that for Talk instead. Messages you send from your moon will appear to have been sent from
your usual (parent) identity.

_Iceman_ `~littel-ponnys` wrote some deep thoughts on Clay, Urbit's filesystem, in this [meaty Fora
post](https://fora.urbit.org/posts/~2018.2.25..02.28.04..bd6d~/).

P.S. We're hiring! If you're interested, email `galen@tlon.io`.
