+++
title = "A brief update from urbit.org"
date = "2020-10-28"
description = "A brief update from urbit.org for ~12.1.2020"

[extra]
author = ""
ship = "~wolref-podlex"
+++

Hello!

As the year of “but wait, there’s more!” draws to a close, we have some big news of our own to share:

1 - Network Breach

Easily the biggest and most important news this month is that another network breach is coming at the beginning of next week. For the unfamiliar, this is when the entire network is effectively reset in order to apply a more foundational change than can be done with an OTA. The specific update in question that’s going out is Arvo/Vere version negotiation. This is a big milestone that enables Vere and Arvo to be updated independently without worrying about version incompatibilities.

Any form of breach, network or personal, means that your ship will be reset to a blank slate. In the past this meant that all of your data would be lost, which usually wasn’t an issue due to the immaturity of user space software.

Fortunately, big changes in Urbit are becoming less and less catastrophic in 2020: Tlon will be providing a special tool (called “flagday”) that can be used to back up your ship, export your data, and re-import everything into your fresh ship.

The folks at Tlon are pretty sure that this will be the last time we have to deal with one of these, but it’s hard to say. What’s clear is that the impact of a network breach on the community is being taken seriously, given the work put into tooling for the preservation of user space data.

Make sure to read the full FAQ here on https://urbit.org/breach, which will be kept updated throughout.

2 - Urbit Events Series

In our last newsletter we announced the return of developer calls, and I’m pleased to say that we’ve done two over the past month, both of which have gone very well. Our first call featured Tlon engineer Logan Allen (~tacryt-socryp), with a discussion about graph-store, and our second call featured Mark Staarink (~palfun-foslup), who discussed the BitTorrent tracker and corresponding CLI he built.

You can find both of the recordings on our YouTube channel at: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCNYIS9_SktINCC9yqO4CFZw/featured.

The next developer call (and last of 2020) will be held on Thursday December 10th, which will feature a discussion by ~timluc-miptev, a member of our community who will be discussing the Bitcoin system he’s built to enable ship-to-ship payments within Urbit.

In January of 2021 we’ll be putting on our first Town Hall. This will be a three hour event with multiple talks that aren’t solely development focused, a keynote presentation, and some other fun stuff. If you’ve got a talk you’d like to give, a project to show off, or something you’d like to see discussed, please reach out to ~wolref-podlex in Urbit or via email at josh@urbit.org.

3 - Community Content on the Blog

“In order to get to the next phase of creating new social processes, we need our technology to be organic and democratic, in the sense that everyone can participate and shape it.”
~radbur-sivmus

In November we saw two posts on the blog from community members.

Aesthetic Culture (https://urbit.org/blog/aesthetic-culture-1/) was posted by ~nartes-fasrum, who compiled art from all over Landscape into a digest. This is the first in a series, many of which will be exclusive to the Urbit Community group in Landscape.

Models of Society (https://urbit.org/blog/20201119-models-of-society), an essay by ~radbur-sivmus, explores modes of messaging, the importance of a sense of place in communication, and how Urbit provides the fundamental substrate for facilitating new forms of societal processes.

Our blog will continue to feature regular updates from the folks at Tlon, but it’s exciting to be able to feature content from our growing community about a broader range of topics.

4 - Hoon School Hiatus

Hoon school is going on temporary pause after the conclusion of the current batch.

I’ll be working with our instructors, ~risruc-habteb and ~rabsef-bicrym, to synthesize their learnings from the many classes given in 2020 and design a new curriculum for 2021.

We’re pretty excited about what an updated course will look like. I can’t go into details yet, but at a high level we’ll be looking to give a more holistic overview of the system through development of practical, full-stack Urbit applications.

--

You would think that a network breach would be a worrisome event. With so much effort having gone into creating groups and the content within them, it’s easy to imagine that a network breach, even with flagday, would pose a serious threat to community engagement.

Personally, I’m not worried at all. The vibe in the room over at Urbit Community is, as usual, calm. From my perspective the greater Urbit Community is more engaged than it ever has been: between the degree of engagement throughout Landscape groups, the steady stream of new projects being undertaken, to the ongoing commitment shown by many community members to continue building on Urbit, it has become clear that Urbit is indispensable to lots of people.

That’s all for now. See you on the network!
Josh / ~wolref-podlex

https://twitter.com/urbit
https://github.com/urbit/urbit
